---
title: I18n / Rails
---

# Rails I18n

This section contains some conventions adopted when using the Rails i18n framework.

## YAML Local File

Here's an example of a YAML locale file.

`UPCASE_WORDS` represents placeholders for real strings. For example, `LANGUAGE` is a placeholder for the language key: `en`, `it_it`, etc.


    LANGUAGE:

      # The `app` node contains keys related to the main application.
      app:
        site_name: ...
        site_description: ...
        site_headline: ...


      # The `flash` node contains all flash message keys,
      # regardless the flash type.
      #
      # Tip: avoid prefixing flash keys with the type of the flash
      # because the same message can be reused in different flash types.
      # Also, you might want to change the flash level in the future.
      flash:
        article_created: "The article has been successfully created."
        article_updated: "The article has been successfully updated."
        bookmark_created: "The bookmark has been successfully created."


      # The `text` node contains keys shared by more than one view
      # or across the entire application.
      text:

        # Action keys are prefixed with `action_`.
        #
        #   <a href="#"><%= t("text.action_edit") %></a> or
        #   <a href="#"><%= t("text.action_cancel") %></a>
        #
        action_edit: "edit"
        action_cancel: "cancel"

        # Button keys are prefixed with `action_`.
        #
        #   <%= submit_tag t("text.button_login") %> or
        #   <a href="#"><%= t("text.action_cancel") %></a>
        #
        button_login: "Login"
        button_search: "Search"

        # h1, h2, h3 keys are prefixed with `header_`.
        #
        #   <h1><%= t("text.header_admin_settings") %></h1>
        #
        header_admin_settings: "Admin Settings"
        header_content: "Content"

        # Title attribute keys are prefixed with `keys_`.
        #
        #   <a href="#" title="<%= t("text.title_goto_site") %>">Hello</a>
        #
        title_goto_site: "Go to this site"
        title_open_page: "Open this page"

        # When the title references a link to a page defined in the
        # routes.rb file, you SHOULD use the route name in the key.
        #
        # This trick reduces the chances that you create a localization string
        # for the same string more than once.
        #
        # <%= link_to "New", new_user_path, :title => t("text.title_new_user_path") %>
        #
        title_users_path: "View user list"
        title_new_user_path: "Create a new user"

        # Short messages are prefixed with `message_`.
        #
        # <% if @users.empty? %>
        #   <%= message_users_empty %>
        # <% else %>
        #   ...
        # <% end %>
        #
        message_users_empty: "There are no users."
        message_required_user: "You must be logged to perform this action."

        # Use the placeholder `foo` to reference a variable in the key.
        suggested_by_foo: "Suggested by {{username}}"
        published_by_foo: "Published by {{username}}"
        foo_ago: "{{time}} ago"

        # Use the schema `x_string` to define a key which interpolates a counter.
        x_comments:
          one:  "1 comment"
          other: "{{count}} comments"
        last_x_users:
          one:  "Last 1 comment"
          other: "Last {{count}} comments"


      # The ActionController keys follows Rails convention to have a node
      # corresponding to the controller name, including several nodes,
      # one for every controller action.
      #
      # If you follow this convention, you can use the shortcut
      #
      #   t(".meta_description")
      #
      # instead of
      #
      #   t("users_controller.index.meta_description")
      #
      # == Requirements
      #
      # ACTION required keys:
      #
      # title - The content of the <title> tag
      # meta_description - The content of the meta description tag.
      #
      # == Example
      #
      # users_controller:
      #   index:
      #     ...
      #   show:
      #     ...
      #
      CONTROLLER:
        ACTION:
          title: ...
          meta_description: ...
        ACTION:
          title: ...
          meta_description: ...


      # The ActionMailer keys follows the same ActionController conventions.
      # 
      # The main node is the name of the ActionMailer class. Each sub-node
      # represents a mailer action.
      #
      # == Requirements
      #
      # ACTION required keys:
      #
      # subject - The subject of the email.
      #
      # == Example
      #
      # user_mailer:
      #   notification:
      #     subject: "[{{project}}] New Contact Message"
      #   welcome_message:
      #     subject: "Welcome to {{project}}!"
      #
      MAILER:
        ACTION:
          subject: "[{{project}}] New Contact Message"
          ...
        ACTION:
          subject: "Welcome to {{project}}!"
          ...
